(A) Mobile Ad Hoc General Concept


1. short path - make the shortest neighbour as the prefered path
2. broken link - still prefer short neighbour, but send through the next short neighbour
continuing infinity - sending through next path ...algorithm is...using short path +1 on so on
then updates routing table
until the cost of link n2-n1 is less than cost of n2-n3
3. 
responding to topology changes
then any route through that hop is given infinity distance (considered as major changes
and immediately broadcasted)
4.
routing table updated and in the future, no longer using broken path (using new information)
5.
routing table information-list all available destination and the number of hops to each destination
shortest path is listed here (hop-count=distance between two nodes)




(B) DSR Specific Attributes

Sample Nodes: A->B->C->D->E

Route Discovery
1. Automatic route discovery
- DSR successfully routing automatically and is determined by the protocol
- DSR successfully send message

2. 

3. Route discovery frequency

Route Request
1.
2.
3.
4. Hop limit
5. Restricted Propagation of Route Request


Route Cache
1. Maintaining route cache information
- Each node successfully maintains a route cache and remember the routes that it has learnt about

2. Route cache updates
3. Route cache has no available information
4. Caching overhead routing information

Route Reply
1. Complete route discovery
- A trying to find route to E. Each intermediate node appends its ID at the end.
E knows the reverse route and successfully sends a route reply.

2. Partial route discovery
- A is trying to find a route to E. C has a route to E in its route cache.
C successfully sends back the complete route to A.

3. Waiting before reply
4. Route reply storm


Route Maintenance
1. Alternative route for broken route
- A successfully using alternative route

2. New route discovery for broken route
- A

3. Active acknowledgement
4. Route Error Message
5.

Packet
1. Size
- The number of control messages is much smaller

2. Energy-efficient
- DSR is successfully showing more energy-efficient attribute and does not congest the network with too many control messages




18.
route maintenance
When S is using a discovered
route to D, S may detect that the route is broken. In
such cases, S may use an alternate route to D (if it is
known), or start another route discovery phase to D.
